Hi, I'm Martha.
I'm an Assistant Professor at
the University of Alberta.
Hi, I'm Adam. I'm
a Research Professor at
the University of Alberta and
a Senior Researcher at DeepMind.
Adam is well known
for his work on
predictive knowledge for
reinforcement learning.
Several research groups around
the world are building
on these ideas.
I personally think it is some
of the most important work
in recent years and will only
become more influential.
He's also an
impressive empiricist,
a real master of designing
experiments to cut
to the key issues.
He's constantly trying to improve
scientific understanding
in the RL-Community.
Martha's algorithm
contributions to
reinforcement learning are
too many to list here.
She has developed several new
off policy learning algorithms,
new approaches to
policy gradient,
and dozens of
impressive contributions
to representation learning.
She is truly one of the young
rising stars in
reinforcement learning.
She also happens to be
my most frequent co-author
and my partner in life.
So how did you get
into computer science?
Well, I grew up in
the East Coast.
In high school, I was really
interested in the sciences;
physics, chemistry, biology,
but I couldn't really
find a right fit.
So I randomly took a course on
computer science and programming,
actually, in GW-BASIC.
It was really just
a career defining
moment for me because
I just remember
the first time implementing
an if statement or a for
loop and it was just
amazing to me that I could get
a computer to execute a sequence
of instructions for me.
So from there, there was no hope.
I was always going to do
computer science in college.
Okay. Then from there, why did
you start working on
reinforcement learning?
So for graduate studies, I
moved out to Alberta and
I came out here to do
parallel distributed computing,
that's what I focused
on in my undergrad.
So I had all my courses loaded up
with systems courses and I
had one more elected to fill,
and so I was looking around
for a course to take.
I did a very reasonable strategy,
I looked at the pictures of
the professors and I picked
the friendliest looking
professor I could find.
Yeah, that turned out
to be Rich Sutton and
it was introduction to
reinforcement learning.
That course was amazing.
It was really inspiring.
It was my first introduction to
artificial intelligence or
machine learning of any kind.
So I remember one of the early
assignments in that course,
we were implementing
SARSA to do a grid world.
Again, it was another career
defining moment for me
just watching this agent
learn to solve this maze.
All it got was this reward
signal minus one per step.
Somehow it figured out this
amazingly efficient path
through the maze.
Again, it just amaze me and I
was hooked and I
was going to keep
doing that for
the rest of my life.
So Martha, how did you
end up doing research
in machine learning and
artificial intelligence?
Well, I actually started
my undergrad in math.
I've always thought functions and
dynamical systems are beautiful.
Then I just took
a CS course for fun,
and it really was very fun.
So I just continued
in both math and CS.
Those two topics go
really well together
for AI and machine
learning, actually.
So and then I did
some research in AI
in the summertime and just
continued from there.
I really just stayed in
the field because over time,
our lives was more than just
about functions in math.
It's really a community
where you get to collaborate
a lot and you get to make
a career where you help people.
So my day, I get to
mentor a lot and I get to
work at a big team
working on hard problems,
and it's really just
very amazing to get to
work on such interesting
questions in a team.
So there's probably
some people who are taking
this RL course
because they want to
do graduate studies in RL.
So what's one of
the most important things
you learn in
your graduate studies?
Well maybe surprisingly enough,
I learned a lesson that's useful
across probably all the
sciences and in fact,
just any form of research,
and that's to really love
coming to understand
the details of things,
to focus and do
small problems and understand
them really, really well.
That's something that I think
is really applicable across
a wide range of things
and it's something that I
pass on to my students
in my classes,
and I really focus on teaching
my graduate students that.
It's something that
I hope to share to
the people taking
this specialization.
So what do you like
about your job?
Well, I love doing research,
but sometimes that can grind
you down a little bit.
Like it's really long hours,
the peer review process can
be a little frustrating.
So in those times when
you step back and look
at your research,
it can seem small and a
little bit insignificant and
it's hard to see
where that's going,
how that's going to
impact the world
and make it a better place.
So in those times,
you can always fall
back and think
about teaching and mentorship.
Teaching is where you get to
help people learn about
things for the first time,
to come to understand how
your field works and
it's just so exciting.
You're also being part of
the beginning of their careers,
whether they end up in
academia, or industry,
or starting their own companies,
it's just such an
amazing experience
to be part of that process.
Throughout my week,
the best day for
me is always the days
when my schedule is full
of meetings with my students and
I get to help them work on
their problems and understand
reinforcement learning better.
So why do you think
it's so important
to work on
reinforcement learning?
Well, I think the promise
of RL is really
big but there are still
a lot of open challenges.
Machine learning has started
being used much more widely,
but RL has only been
used in a few areas.
But at the same time, I think RL
can have a really big impact.
I think within
the next decade or so,
we're going to see
more control engineers actually
using RL in their systems.
We're really just going to
see that it's a tool that
can help in automated
decision-making,
really within a larger
engineered systems.
But I think for that
to really happen,
we need to make
some advances in RL.
We need to start thinking
more about how
we're going to have
robust algorithms and
how we're going to get
people to be comfortable
using these algorithms.
So I think alongside
adoption in industry,
we're going to need
to be thinking about
how we can improve
RL algorithms so that
these two things can
happen together.
So how about you? Why do you
think RL is good to work on?
Well naturally, I think
reinforcement learning
is just the exact right framework
to study AI and to make
progress towards solving AI.
But RL is also really
important to me
because I'm very interested
in developmental learning system.
So you can think about humans,
babies playing on the floor or
young animals learning
about the world.
I want to learn about
those systems and how they work.
If you think about those systems,
they learn an enormous amount in
such a tiny amount of time.
They learn how to crawl,
they learn how their bodies work,
they learn how to interact with
their environment and
manipulate objects,
communicate with
other agents in the world.
Just generally, they're
very competent learning systems.
They do that over a couple
of weeks to a couple of months.
It's just really astounding.
It feels like we
have so much work
to do to get close
to those systems.
So I really want to
come to understand
the algorithms and
the representations
that those systems
might be using,
and I think reinforcement
learning is the right lens to
look at those things and to
come to understand those things.
So applications always drive
interest and excitement
in the field
and we've had a few of them in
games and in some
industrial control problems.
But what do you think
is going to be the next
big thing in
reinforcement learning?
Well, it's hard. I think RL is
a general approach to
automated decision-making.
It's a tool that's going to help
us in a lot of
our engineered systems.
So I think the place
we're really going to see
it take off is an
industrial control.
In industrial control, we have
experts that are really
looking for ways to
improve the optimal- how
well their systems work.
So we're going to
see it do things
like reduce energy costs
or save on other types
of costs that we have in
these industrial control systems.
In the hands of experts,
we can really make
these algorithms
work well in the near future.
So I really see it as
a tool that's going to
facilitate experts in
their work rather than say,
doing something like replacing
people or automating them away.